Evolution is the integrated mail, calendar and address book suite from
the Evolution Team.

See https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evolution for more information.

If you are using Evolution, you may wish to subscribe to the Evolution
users mailing list.  If you are interested in contributing to
development on it, you should certainly subscribe to the Evolution
Hackers mailing list.  Visit

	https://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo

to subscribe or view archives of the Evolution mailing lists.

If you are planning to work on any part of Evolution, please send mail
to the mailing list first, to avoid duplicated effort (and to make
sure that you aren't basing your work on interfaces that are expected
to change).

There is also a #evolution IRC channel on irc.gnome.org.

Help for Evolution is available in the user manual (select "Help" from
the menu after running the application), at the Novell knowledge base
(http://support.novell.com), in the Evolution man page (run "man
evolution" at the command line), and in the --help strings (run
"evolution --help" at the command line).

The rest of this file is dedicated to building Evolution.


DEPENDENCIES
------------

In order to build Evolution you need to have the full set of GNOME 2.6
(or greater) development libraries installed.

GNOME 2.6 or greater comes with most of the modern distributions, so
in most cases it should be enough to just install all the devel
packages from your distribution.

Please make sure you have the most recent versions of the libraries
installed, since bugs in the libraries can cause bugs in Evolution.

Additional dependencies, besides the stock GNOME libraries (the
dependencies should be compiled in the order they are listed here):

	* gnome-icon-theme 1.2.0 or later

	* ORBit 2.9.8 or later

	     ftp://ftp.gnome.org/pub/gnome/sources/ORBit2/
	
	* libsoup 2.2.1 or later

	     ftp://ftp.gnome.org/pub/gnome/sources/libsoup

	* evolution-data-server 1.1.1 or later

	     ftp://ftp.gnome.org/pub/gnome/sources/evolution-data-server

	* gtkhtml 3.5.0 or later

	     ftp://ftp.gnome.org/pub/gnome/sources/gtkhtml

	* [Optional] Mozilla NSPR/NSS libraries

	  These are needed if you want to compile Evolution with SSL and S/MIME
	  support.

	     http://www.mozilla.org/

          Many distributions ship these as Mozilla development
          packages.

	* [Optional] gnome-spell 1.0.1 or later

	  This is only necessary if you want to have the spell
	  checking functionality in Evolution's message composer.

	     ftp://ftp.gnome.org/pub/gnome/sources/gnome-spell

CONFIGURING EVOLUTION
---------------------

First you have to decide whether you want to install Evolution (and
its dependencies) into the same prefix as the rest of your GNOME
install, or into a new prefix.

Installing everything into the same prefix as the rest of your GNOME
install will make it much easier to build and run programs, and easier
to switch between using packages and building it yourself, but it may
also make it harder to uninstall later.  Also, it increases the chance
that something goes wrong and your GNOME installation gets ruined.

If you want to install in a different prefix, you need to do the
following things:

	* Set the PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment variable to contain a
          colon-separated list of all the pkg-config directories that
          will be involved in the build.  This basically means a list
          of $prefix/lib/pkgconfig directory names, where $prefix is
          the prefix where a library is installed.

	  For example, if you have GNOME installed in /usr and you
          are installing Evolution and its dependencies in
          /opt/evolution, you want to do something like the following
          (assuming you are using Bash):

	      export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/lib/pkgconfig:/opt/evolution/lib/pkgconfig

	* Edit the bonobo-activation-config.xml file (which is
          normally found in /etc/bonobo-activation/) to include the
          location where you are installing Evolution.

	  In the example given above (GNOME in /usr, Evolution and
          dependencies in /opt/evolution), your
          bonobo-activation-config.xml will have to look like this:

	      <?xml version="1.0"?>
	      <oafconfig>
	        <searchpath>
	          <item>/usr/lib/bonobo/servers</item>
	          <item>/opt/evolution/lib/bonobo/servers</item>
	        </searchpath>
	      </oafconfig>

	* Pass an appropriate --prefix parameter to the configure
          scripts of Evolution and its dependencies, eg:

	      ./configure --prefix=/opt/evolution

More information on how to use the configure script is available in
the INSTALL file which is part of the Evolution tarball.


OPTIONAL FEATURES
-----------------

Some optional features can be enabled at compilation time by passing
appropriate flags to the configure script:

	* SSL support.

	  Make sure you have Mozilla's NSS nad NSPR libraries
	  installed and pass the following flag:

	    --enable-nss

