.TH "EVOLUTION" "1" "Aug 27, 2018" "" ""
.SH NAME
evolution \- The Evolution PIM and Email Client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
\fBevolution\fR [ \fB-c|--component \fIcomponent\fB\fR ] [ \fB-g|--geometry \fIgeometry\fB\fR ] [ \fB--offline\fR ] [ \fB--online\fR ] [ \fB--force-online\fR ]  [ \fB--force-shutdown\fR ] [ \fB--disable-eplugin\fR ] [ \fB--disable-preview\fR ] [ \fB-i|--import \fIfilenames\fB\fR ] [ \fB-q|--quit\fR ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBEvolution\fR is the GNOME mailer, calendar, contact manager and
communications tool. The components which make up Evolution
are tightly integrated with one another and act as a seamless
personal information-management (PIM) tool.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax,
with long options starting with two dashes (`-'). A summary of
options is included below.
.TP
\fB-c|--component \fIcomponent\fB\fR
Start Evolution showing the specified \fIcomponent\fR. Available options
are “mail”, “calendar”, “contacts”, “tasks” and “memos”.
.TP
\fB-g|--geometry \fIgeometry\fB\fR
Apply the given \fIgeometry\fR to the main window.
.TP
\fB--offline\fR
Start in offline mode.
.TP
\fB--online\fR
Start in online mode.
.TP
\fB--force-online\fR
Ignore network availability.
.TP
\fB--force-shutdown\fR
Forcibly shut down Evolution and background Evolution-Data-Server processes.
.TP
\fB--disable-eplugin\fR
Disable loading of any plugins.
.TP
\fB--disable-preview\fR
Disable preview pane of Mail, Contacts and Tasks.
.TP
\fB-i|--import \fIfilenames\fB\fR
Import URIs or filenames given as rest of arguments.
.TP
\fB--view \fIfilenames\fB\fR
View URIs or filenames given as rest of arguments.
.TP
\fB-q|--quit\fR
Request a running Evolution process to quit.
.SH "AUTHOR"
The Evolution team, https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/evolution/-/wikis/home
